
NAME

    text::sync - package to synchronize two or more text widgets.


SYNOPSIS

    package require text::sync ?0.0.1?

    text::sync::cget W
    text::sync::configure W
    text::sync::sync W ?option? ?value option value ...?

    text::sync::pkginit_


OPTIONS

    Command-Line Name: -sync
    Database Name: sync
    Database Class: Sync
        Specifies a list of the following option-value pairs:

    -delete boolean
        Specifies if text deletion is synchronized. The default value is
        false.

    -edit boolean
        Specifies if text edit subcommands are synchronized. The default
        value is false.

    -insert boolean
        Specifies if text insertion is synchronized. The default value
        is false.

    -mark boolean
        Specifies if text marks are synchronized. The default value is
        false.

    -offset offset
        Specifies the line offset for text insertion and deletion.
        Offsets are specified relative to a zero offset, and are useful
        when synchronizing a text widget which contains a subset of the
        contents of another text widget. For instance, if text widget
        .t1 contains a whole document, and text widget .t2 contains just
        one section of that document, the offset for .t2 would be one
        line less than the first line of the subsection in .t1 (because
        text widgets start at line 1). As another example, if .t1 has
        the offset 3, and .t2 has the offset -2, insert subcommands
        received by .t2 would result in the text being inserted into .t1
        5 lines below that in .t2.

    -scan boolean
        Specifies if text scan subcommands are synchronized. The default
        value is false.

    -see boolean
        Specifies if text see subcommands are synchronized. The default
        value is false.

    -tag boolean
        Specifies if text tags are synchronized. The default value is
        false.

    -window boolean
        Specifies if text window subcommands are synchronized. The
        default value is false.

    -with widgets
        Specifies the list of text widgets with which synchronization is
        enabled.

    -xview boolean
        Specifies if horizontal scrolling is synchronized. The default
        value is false.

    -yview boolean
        Specifies if vertical scrolling is synchronized. The default
        value is false.


DESCRIPTION

    The text::sync package provides routines for synchronizing two or
    more Tk text widgets.

    The text::sync::sync command initiates subcommand synchronization
    between two or more Tk text widgets.

    Synchronization between text widgets can be useful in many
    situations. For instance, a text editor can have a split view of two
    different parts of the same document - changes to one text widget
    are automatically applied to the other text widget. Alternatively,
    two side-by-side text widgets can be made to scroll together
    vertically. In essence, any of the text subcommands which affect the
    content or visual representation of the text widget can be
    synchronized with other text widgets.


COMMANDS

text::sync::cget W option

    Returns the current value of the configuration option given by
    option. Option may have any of the values accepted by the text
    command, or any of the package-specific options defined in the
    OPTIONS section above.

text::sync::configure W ?option? ?value option value ...?

    Query or modify the configuration options of the widget. If no
    option is specified, returns a list describing all of the available
    options for W (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information on the format of
    this list). If option is specified with no value, then the command
    returns a list describing the one named option (this list will be
    identical to the corresponding sublist of the value returned if no
    option is specified). If one or more option-value pairs are
    specified, then the command modifies the given widget option(s) to
    have the given value(s); in this case the command returns an empty
    string. Option may have any of the values accepted by the text
    command, or any of the package-specific options defined in the
    OPTIONS section above.

text::sync::sync widgets ?options?

    Synchronize the list of text widgets given by widgets. The list of
    options is passed through to the test::sync::configure command.

text::sync::pkginit_

    This private command initializes the text::sync package.


EXAMPLE

    package require text::sync

    text .t1
    text .t2

    pack .t1 .t2 -expand 1 -fill both

    text::sync::sync [list .t1 .t2] \
      -delete 1 -insert 1 -mark 1 -scan 1 -tag 1


BUGS

    Does not import values from the options database.

    Needs more testing.

------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (C) 2003, Mark G. Saye <markgsaye@yahoo.com>
